src/content/blogs/open-source.mdx, before:

---
title: "Open Source: More Than Just Code"
description: "Gen Z thoughts & vibes on Open Source"
slug: "open-source"
---


Hey there! I'm Sagnik ([@heysagnik](https://github.com/heysagnik)), and if you’re reading this, you probably vibe with open source—or you’re at least curious about it. Either way, welcome to my little corner of the internet.

## Why Open Source?

Let’s be real: open source is kinda like the group project where everyone actually *wants* to contribute. No gatekeeping, no “you can’t sit with us” energy. Just people building cool stuff together, learning from each other, and making tech better for everyone.

## My Journey

I started out lurking on GitHub, star-ing random repos and thinking, “Whoa, these people are geniuses.” Fast forward a bit, and I realized: you don’t have to be a 10x dev to contribute. Sometimes it’s fixing a typo, sometimes it’s squashing a bug, sometimes it’s just opening an issue and starting a convo.

## The Vibes

- **Community > Competition**: It’s not about flexing, it’s about helping.
- **Learning by Doing**: Tutorials are cool, but PRs hit different.
- **Imposter Syndrome? Relatable.**: But trust me, everyone starts somewhere.

## How to Start

1. Find a project you vibe with (shameless plug: check out my [GitHub](https://github.com/heysagnik)).
2. Read the README (seriously, it helps).
3. Ask questions. People are nicer than you think.
4. Make your first PR—even if it’s tiny.

## Final Thoughts

Open source isn’t just about code. It’s about people, ideas, and making the internet a little bit cooler. So if you’re on the fence, just jump in. You got this.

Stay curious,
Sagnik ✨

Commit message:

feat: add static message list component with hardcoded messages
- Implemented StaticMessageList component to display a series of hardcoded messages in a chat-like interface.
- Integrated various message types including text, photos, music, location, blog, and project messages.
- Added styling for sent and received messages, ensuring a responsive design.
- Included a header and spacing to match the overall layout.

docs: create blog posts on portfolio and TypeScript journey

- Added a new blog post titled "Building This Portfolio: A Chat Interface Experiment" detailing the inspiration and technical stack behind the portfolio.
- Created another blog post "My TypeScript Journey: From Skeptic to Advocate" sharing personal experiences and insights on adopting TypeScript.

src/content/blogs/open-source.mdx, after:

---
title: "Open Source: More Than Just Code"
description: "Gen Z thoughts & vibes on Open Source"
slug: "open-source"
date: "2024-01-15"
author: "Sagnik"
tags: ["open-source", "development", "community", "github"]
category: "Development"
featured: true
published: true
excerpt: "A personal take on why open source is like the best group project ever - no gatekeeping, just people building cool stuff together."
readingTime: 3
---

Hey there! I'm Sagnik ([@heysagnik](https://github.com/heysagnik)), and if you're reading this, you probably vibe with open source—or you're at least curious about it. Either way, welcome to my little corner of the internet.

## Why Open Source?

Let's be real: open source is kinda like the group project where everyone actually *wants* to contribute. No gatekeeping, no "you can't sit with us" energy. Just people building cool stuff together, learning from each other, and making tech better for everyone.

## My Journey

I started out lurking on GitHub, star-ing random repos and thinking, "Whoa, these people are geniuses." Fast forward a bit, and I realized: you don't have to be a 10x dev to contribute. Sometimes it's fixing a typo, sometimes it's squashing a bug, sometimes it's just opening an issue and starting a convo.

## The Vibes

- **Community > Competition**: It's not about flexing, it's about helping.
- **Learning by Doing**: Tutorials are cool, but PRs hit different.
- **Imposter Syndrome? Relatable.**: But trust me, everyone starts somewhere.

## How to Start

1. Find a project you vibe with (shameless plug: check out my [GitHub](https://github.com/heysagnik)).
2. Read the README (seriously, it helps).
3. Ask questions. People are nicer than you think.
4. Make your first PR—even if it's tiny.

## Final Thoughts

Open source isn't just about code. It's about people, ideas, and making the internet a little bit cooler. So if you're on the fence, just jump in. You got this.

Stay curious,
Sagnik ✨
